---
title: "How to Travel the World Long Term and Live Your Dreams"
date: 2012-08-31
draft: true
---

  
  
  
  
  
  

<!--more-->  
  
Aw, thanks Mandy, I think extended family travel is a popular dream and it  
actually is easier than we expected and is a growing trend thanks to tech, the  
economy and probably 4Hour Workweek ( we're case studies). I have written about  
it and here are two links to get you started and you may want to look at more  
under our FAQ:  
  
[https://pub-ac94b3f306b24c0dba4238943c97f2e1.r2.dev/2008/06/how-to-do-exten.html](https://pub-ac94b3f306b24c0dba4238943c97f2e1.r2.dev/2008/06/how-to-do-exten.html)  
  
[https://pub-ac94b3f306b24c0dba4238943c97f2e1.r2.dev/2009/04/how-to-travel-the-world-as-a-digital-nomad  
\-family.html](https://pub-ac94b3f306b24c0dba4238943c97f2e1.r2.dev/2009/04/how-to-travel-the-world-as-a-digital-nomad-family.html)  
  
Money issues and friends are the biggies, so here's how we handle worldschooling  
socialization issues:  
  
[https://pub-ac94b3f306b24c0dba4238943c97f2e1.r2.dev/2011/02/kids-friends-travel-on-the-ultimate-family  
\-adventure.html](https://pub-ac94b3f306b24c0dba4238943c97f2e1.r2.dev/2011/02/kids-friends-travel-on-the-ultimate-family-adventure.html)  
  
We travel the world luxuriously for MUCH, much less than we could live at home,  
but it does take some planning and prep before take off and like any life it has  
pros and cons. For us the pros FAR outweigh the cons, but we didn't know that  
til we did it..twas definitely a leap of faith in 2005 when we sold our home and  
we didn't know we'd do it this long. Such a trip/lifestyle changes you forever  
and we've grown fond of the gift of time together and rich experiences that slow  
travel gives us..living without the rat race.  
  
Just like homeschooling, there are as many ways to travel the world as there are  
people doing it, so every one has to tweak to their own needs. Some do it on  
much, much less than we do it on and some spend a fortune for just 6 months or a  
year of travel. It is a myth that travel costs a lot, buying and maintaining  
"stuff" is what costs a lot and gets in the way of freedom despite the fact that  
most people don't need or use 95% of the things they have.  
  
  
“Normal is getting dressed in clothes that you buy for work and driving  
through traffic in a car that you are still paying for - in order to get to the  
job you need to pay for the clothes and the car, and the house you leave vacant  
all day so you can afford to live in it.” Goodman  
  
I know a single mom with 5 adopted mixed-race ( born drug babies) under 9 who is  
doing it and a family from NZ who ate beans for years to do it with 8 kids and a  
grandpa. My friend Maya Frost did it with 4 teenagers and wrote the book Global  
Student about it and how she launched all 4 with college degrees and no debt  
that way. Some do it part time, some just in the USA, some just in Asia or Latin  
America, some moms do it on their own part-time half the year if husband's job  
doesn't allow him that full time,some do home exchange or couchsurfing , some do  
it with physically challenged kids in wheel chairs or with autism, some do it  
through teaching abroad, some do sabbaticals, etc etc etc. Some have done it on  
bikes, sailboats, some by cruise ships and every other possible way. We've seen  
the world mostly by foot, but also used cargo ships, sailing, trains,bikes,  
buses, subways, RV, car, hiking, planes etc. ..lots of learning just in that.  
  
MANY do work as they roam the world, as one really can work and school anywhere  
today. The easiest way is to teach English and that is a very popular route (  
which I know nothing about). Many have web based business like web designers or  
freelancers or some do long-distance telecommute. If you have a small over head  
( easy to do outside of USA) one can work a lot less and enjoy more free time.  
  
This has been a growing trend, especially after the economic crash in 2008 and  
the American Diaspora so there is a TON of info online about how to do this.  
None of this was around when we started in 2005, but now it's easy.  
  
We're frugal by nature, but we took a big risk to do this, we sold our beloved  
dream house ( and almost all of our things)in 2005 and retired early, so  
primarily live off investments and grow them as we roam. We were inspired by  
friends who retired at 35 on little over 25 years ago to become perpetual  
travelers.  
  
The longer we travel, the less we need and we travel the world with just 1  
carry-on each. We bought an old, small RV in Europe in 2005 and it makes a  
wonderful home/vehicle/storage unit to make our stays there cheap ( we wintered  
in a new ocean view condo in a small village in Andalusia 4 years when gaining  
the language and now we do that in Asia for Mandarin). Why own a home when you  
can rent ocean view, luxury, furnished ones for a pittance around the world?  
  
I started the blog just for family and to keep a record for our kid, but we've  
inspired many to take their own journey..sometimes just because they didn't know  
it could be done until they found us. FOTR ( families on the road) is another  
great resource if you are considering this route.  
  
Trust me, this can be done by any ordinary person or family that wants to do it.  
If it's your dream, I say go for it! ;) There are others on this list who have  
combined extended travel and education as it's especially nice for gifted  
families I think.  
  
Best,  
  
Jeanne  
  
\--- In [GiftedHF@yahoogroups.com](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/GiftedHF/post?postID=4zuMPT0MrmKk8sF-WzfiVbBsbd2evFAtAeXtd5w-HQJAAohcjeK-QrfCfLT_n5hhnz8vVOnnhvGGDfkpV_EKfw), Mandy Pacheco <mandypacheco@...> wrote:  
\>  
\> You are living my dream, Jeanne. Did you have to save for many years for  
\> this, or is it possible to find work? Perhaps one of your blog messages  
\> discusses it?
